Securities and Exchange Board of India सेबी की वेबसाइट पर आपका स्वागत है Welcome to website of Securities and Exchange Board of India वेबसाइट देखने के लिए अपनी पसंदीदा भाषा चुनें Select your preferred language to access the website हिन्दी English Click here to make payment of SEBI Fees Click here to make payment to SEBI IPEF Authenticate Document Issued by SEBI What's New View All MITRA - Gateway to unclaimed Mutual Funds MITRA (Mutual Fund Investment Tracing and Retrieval Assistant) - Your Gateway to Forgotten Mutual Fund Investments Your Money , Your Right Campaign for efficient and quick settlement of unclaimed assets in the financial sector Launch of ‘India Market Access’ Website for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) A unified initiative of SEBI and Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs)—NSE, BSE, ICCL, NCL, CDSL, and NSDL, this Website has been developed as a dedicated platform for current and prospective FPIs. Vigilance Awareness Week- 2025 “Vigilance: Our Shared Responsibility” Participate in fight against corruption- Take Online Integrity Pledge at https://pledge.cvc.nic.in/ Bharat Ka Share Bazaar @ INDIA INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR – 2025 The ‘India International Trade Fair’ (IITF) is one of the largest trade fairs in the world, will be held at Bharat Mandapam in New Delhi from November 14 to 27, 2025. This year’s theme, ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’, highlights India’s cultural diversity and development. SEBI Arth Yatra Contest 2025 Results Results of SEBI Arth Yatra Contest 2025 held from 25th August 2025 to 15th October 2025 Project 'Dharohar - Milestones in the Indian Securities Market' Dharohar is a digital knowledge repository designed to document and showcase the rich heritage and evolution of the Indian Securities Market. Download the TRAI DND App and Report Spam In order to curb Unsolicited commercial communication, Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has Do Not Disturb (DND) mobile application, available on the play store. This app empowers users to exercise options not to receive Unsolicited Commercial Communications (UCC), report violations, and track the status of their complaints. Join NCFE as a Financial Education Trainer today! FAQ on Cybersecurity and Cyber Resilience Framework (CSCRF) Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on Cybersecurity and Cyber Resilience Framework (CSCRF) for SEBI REs and Framework for Adoption of Cloud Services by SEBI REs Info For PACL Matters Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) Bankers to an Issue Collective Investment Schemes (C.I.S) Commodity Derivatives Corp. Debt Market Credit Rating Agencies COVID-19 Measures Debenture Trustees Depository Participants Derivatives Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) International Affairs Investigation Investment Advisers Listing Regulations Investor Survey Issues And Listing Legal Affairs Merchant Bankers Mutual Fund Portfolio Managers Prosecution Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents Research Analysts Stock Brokers Takeover Trading, etc Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Underwriters Venture Capital Electronic Gold Receipts Municipal Debt Securities Departments & Divisions   The Preamble of the Securities and Exchange Board of India "...to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto" View All Departments Alternative Investment Fund and Foreign Portfolio Investors Department (AFD) AFD handles all work related to Alternative Investment Funds (AIF), Venture Capital Funds (VCF), Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCI), Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI), Designated Depository Participant (DDP) and Custodians. Go to Department Section Board Cell (Board Cell) Board Cell Go to Department Section Communications Department (CD) The division would be responsible for all communications of SEBI. These include: - Media releases and other forms of communication including the publication of SEBI materials. - News conferences and responding to inquiries from the press. Go to Department Section Corporation Finance Department (CFD) The Corporation Finance Department deals with matters relating to (i) Issuance and listing of securities, including initial and continuous listing requirements (ii) Corporate governance and accounting/auditing standards (iii) Corporate restructuring through Takeovers / buy backs (iv) Social Stock Exchange- Policy Formulation, Regulatory Supervision, Creation of eco-system etc. (v) Delisting etc. Go to Department Section Corporation Finance Investigation Department (CFID) Corporation Finance Investigation Department Go to Department Section Department Economic and Policy Analysis (DEPA) The Department will handle its functions through the following Divisions: 1.Statistics Division 2.Publication Division 3.Regulatory Research Division 4.History Cell 5.Policy Research Division 6.Systematic Stability Unit 7.Division Of Commodity Research (Agriculture) & (Non Agriculture) Go to Department Section Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities (DDHS) The Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities is responsibe for matters related to Corporate Bonds, listed debt securities, Real Estate Investment Trust, Infrastructure Investment Trust, deemed public issues of debt securities and complaints in respect of aforementioned areas of work. Go to Department Section Enforcement Department - 1 (EFD1) Contents required from department. Go to Department Section Enquiries and Adjudication Department (EAD) The Enquiries and Adjudication Department would handle quasi-judicial matters and provide timely hearings and initiates adjudication brought by the other Departments against alleged violators who are within SEBI's disciplinary jurisdiction. Go to Department Section General Services Department - 1 (GSD - 1) GSD - 1 Go to Department Section General Services Department - 2 (GSD - 2) GSD - 2 Go to Department Section General Services Department - 3 (GSD - 3) GSD - 3 Go to Department Section Human Resources Department (HRD) The Human Resources Division will perform all the functions in its role as the principal personnel and human resources authority in SEBI. Go to Department Section Information Technology Department (ITD) The Information Technology Department (ITD) of SEBI is the enabler of technology landscape in the organisation. ITD is committed to its vision of leveraging technology in partnership with every department of SEBI to achieve the following goals: \n1. Development and implementation of Enterprise wide solutions like Portals and gateways, Network Infrastructure, Private Cloud Infrastructure, Mail and messaging solution, Data lake, Document Management system, SAP Solution etc. \n2. Facilitating Ease of doing Business for market intermediaries by enhancing the digital interfaces between them and SEBI in respect of a large range of functions such as Regulations, Compliance and Reporting. \n3. Developing Data Warehouse system for surveillance, inspections and supervision activities. \n4. Driving data analytics practice at SEBI. \n5. Ensuring deployment of strong cyber security measures and information technology (IT) resilience in the market Infrastructure to facilitate uninterrupted trading and privacy of investor data. \n6. Undertaking IT inspections and audit for MIIs and intermediaries. \n7. Development of framework for information interchange with various government agencies. \n8. Facilitating innovation in markets through SEBI’s Innovation Sandbox Framework. Go to Department Section Integrated Surveillance Department (ISD) The integrated Surveillance department is responsible for monitoring market activity through market systems, data from other departments and analytical software. Go to Department Section Investigations Department (IVD) The Investigations department is responsible for: - Conducting investigations on potentially illegal market activities. - Providing referrals to the enforcement department. - Assisting the enforcement department in enforcing SEBI action against violators. Go to Department Section Internal Inspection Department (IID) Internal Inspection Department Go to Department Section Investment Management Department (IMD) The Investment Management department is responsible for registering and regulating mutual funds, venture capital funds, foreign venture capital investors, collective investment schemes, including plantation schemes, Foreign Institutional Investors, Portfolio Managers and Custodians Go to Department Section Legal Affairs Department 1 (LAD 1) Vertical-I (LAD1 Vertical-I) CGM: Shri D. V. Sekhar, Tel No.:- +91 022 26449570 Email Id: dvsekhar@sebi.gov.in Go to Department Section Legal Affairs Department 1 (Vertical 2) (LAD2 (V2)) The Legal Affairs Department 2 (LAD2) is responsible for all the litigations wherein SEBI is a party (except appeals before the Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) and criminal/prosecution matters). Presently, there are three divisions in LAD2 that handle the functions of the Department. Go to Department Section Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department (MIRSD) The Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department is responsible for the registration, supervision, compliance monitoring and inspections of all market intermediaries in respect of all segments of the markets viz. equity, equity derivatives, currency derivatives, debt and debt related derivatives. Go to Department Section Market Regulation Department (MRD) The Market Regulation Department (MRD) is responsible for formulation of policy and supervision of functioning and operations of Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs) such as, Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Clearing Corporations. MRD consists of the following divisions: Go to Department Section National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) NISM Go to Department Section Office of International Affairs (OIA) The office would perform the following: -Implement information-sharing initiatives with international regulators -Participate in international regulatory organizations -Handle all matters related to foreign assisted projects -Establish guidelines for interaction with foreign Government agencies and foreign Go to Department Section Office of Investor Assistance and Education (OIAE) The Office will support SEBI's operation by handling investor complaints centrally and be the focal point of SEBI's investor education effort.The Office would be the single point interface with investors and would receive complaints relating to all departments, forward to the concerned departments. Go to Department Section Office of the Chairperson (OCH) The Department will handle its functions through the following Divisions: - Office of the Executive Assistant to Chairman Go to Department Section Office of WTM (OWTM) OWTM Go to Department Section PACL Committtee (PACL Committtee) PACL Committtee Go to Department Section Parliament Questions (PQ) Cell & Right to Information (RTI) Cell (PQ Cell & RTI Cell) PQ Cell & RTI Cell Go to Department Section Prosecution and Settlement Department (PSD) Prosecution and Settlement Department Go to Department Section Quasi-Judicial Cell (QJC) To execute Quasi-judicial functions of the Board Go to Department Section Regional Offices (RO's) The Regional Office will handle work as per existing delegation and shall continue to report to functional heads for specific departmental functions while reporting administratively to SEBI Executive Directors. Go to Department Section Vigilance Department (Vigilance Dept.) Vigilance Department is headed by Chief Vigilance officer (CVO) Go to Department Section Recovery and Refund department (RRD) The Recovery and Refund Department deals with recovery proceedings against the defaulters who have failed to pay the penalty, fees, disgorgement amount or monies directed to be refunded to investors and refund of such monies. Go to Department Section Regulatory Review Cell (RRC) RRC Go to Department Section SAT - SC Department (SSLD) SSLD Go to Department Section Investor Complaints  Complaint Registration View Complaint Status Toll Free Helpline: 1800 266 7575 or 1800 22 7575 Common Investor Service Centres of Stock Exchanges Intermediaries / Market Infrastructure Institutions Statistics Careers Settlement Application Settlement Calculator BETA Settlement Schemes Video View All CIS Unrealistic Returns Office of Informant Protection Disclaimer: × SI portal users kindly note that this link is only for non-SI portal users or for payment of fees not available in SI portal. The link is not to be used for payment of self-registration fees, registration fees and renewal fees. “SEBI is exempted from Income Tax under Section 25 of the SEBI Act, 1992. Hence, TDS is not applicable on the fee payable to SEBI and fee needs to be remitted in full along with GST @ 18%.” Proceed </html